NAME	url-picker

SITE	http://chipstips.com/?tag=plurlpicker
	http://bitbucket.org/sterlingcamden/urlpicker

AUTHOR	Chip Camden

DATE	September, 2010

DESCRIPTION

Perl extension for rxvt-unicode (aka urxvt) to enable quick keyboard
navigation of URLs shown in the terminal window.  The design is similar
to the 'follow hints' feature of Vimperator
(http://vimperator.org/vimperator).

INSTALLATION

See the man page for urxvtperl(3) for a full discussion of Perl
extensions.  Enable this extension using one of the methods documented
there.  For instance, you could place the script url-picker in
/usr/local/lib/urxvt/perl, then add the following to .Xdefaults:

URxvt.perl-ext: default,matcher,url-picker
URxvt.keysym.C-0xff0d:    perl:url-picker

I find that url-picker works well in combination with matcher, but you
can leave out the latter if you don't care for it.  The above enables, in
addition to the default behavior, the matcher extension and url-picker.
It directs the key combination of ctrl+enter to call the on_user_command
function of url-picker.

OPERATION

If no URLs are visible on the screen, url-picker just pops up an overlay
window that warns "no URLs found on screen".  The overlay disappears
after five seconds, but the terminal is immediately operable.

If the terminal display contains only one URL, that URL is launched to
the browser.  The browser is determined by X resources
url-picker.launcher if defined, otherwise URxvt.urlLauncher.  If neither
of these are defined, the 'sensible-browser' is used.  The URL will be
passed as the first argument.

If more than one URL is visible in the terminal window, url-picker places
numbered labels over the first characters of each URL on the screen.  A
prompt "Follow: " appears at the bottom of the terminal window, at which
you can type only numbers, backspace, enter, or escape (all other input is
ignored).

Escape exits this mode and removes all overlay windows, without doing
anything.

Enter launches the URL associated with the number that has been typed, if
that number matches one of the URL labels.  Otherwise, nothing happens.

When typing numbers, if the number typed so far uniquely identifies a
URL, that URL is launched immediately.  Otherwise, the labels that do not
match the numbers typed so far will be hidden.

The backspace key erases the last number typed, if there is one.

When a URL is launched, all overlay windows are removed and the cursor
position is restored to where it was in the terminal window before
url-picker was invoked.  The url launched is displayed on the bottom
row of the terminal window for five seconds.
